---
title: "Robust Millimeter Beamforming via Self-Supervised Hybrid Deep Learning"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/Hybrid
excerpt: 'We design an effective beamforming network with strong robustness for the intelligent wireless communications'
date: 2023-09-04
venue: '2023 31st European Signal Processing Conference (EUSIPCO)'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10289989'
citation: 'F. Zhu et al., "Robust Millimeter Beamforming via Self-Supervised Hybrid Deep Learning," 2023 31st European Signal Processing Conference (EUSIPCO), Helsinki, Finland, 2023, pp. 915-919, doi: 10.23919/EUSIPCO58844.2023.10289989.'
---

Index Terms—**Robust Beamforming, deep neural networks, hybrid learning, self-supervised learning.**

Beamforming with large-scale antenna arrays hasbeen widely used in recent years, which is acknowledged as animportant part in 5G and incoming 6G. Thus, various techniquesare leveraged to improve its performance, e.g., deep learning,advanced optimization algorithms, etc. Although its performancein many previous research scenarios with deep learning is quiteattractive, usually it drops rapidly when the environment ordataset is changed. Therefore, designing effective beamformingnetwork with strong robustness is an open issue for the intelligentwireless communications. In this paper, we propose a robustbeamforming self-supervised network, and verify it in two kindsof different datasets with various scenarios. Simulation resultsshow that the proposed self-supervised network with hybridlearning performs well in both classic DeepMIMO and newWAIR-D dataset with the strong robustness under the variousenvironments. Also, we present the principle to explain therationality of this kind of hybrid learning, which is instructiveto apply with more kinds of datasets. 

(PDF) Robust Millimeter Beamforming via Self-Supervised Hybrid Deep Learning. Available from: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/375208924_Robust_Millimeter_Beamforming_via_Self-Supervised_Hybrid_Deep_Learning [accessed Aug 07 2024].
